Matt,

This rejection will take some digestion.  I am disappointed with the
initial rejection, but it looks like we might be able to salvage this
with revision and resubmission.  Actually, I think the reviewers
comments were good.  It was the associate editor that seemed the most
confused.  The hardest part is to address all the concerns in the
limited space.  Thoughts?

I have to go teach.  Lets plan to talk about this in the next week or
so to determine next steps.

Stuart

---
Stuart Borrett
http://people.uncw.edu/borretts

Begin forwarded message:

From:
"coordinator@methodsinecologyandevolution.org<mailto:coordinator@methodsinecologyandevolution.org>"
<coordinator@methodsinecologyandevolution.org<mailto:coordinator@methodsinecologyandevolution.org>>
Date: January 15, 2014, 3:56:31 PM EST
To: "Borrett, Stuart" <borretts@uncw.edu<mailto:borretts@uncw.edu>>,
"stuart.borrett@gmail.com<mailto:stuart.borrett@gmail.com>"
<stuart.borrett@gmail.com<mailto:stuart.borrett@gmail.com>>
Subject: Methods in Ecology and Evolution - Decision on Manuscript ID
MEE-13-11-654

15-Jan-2014

Dear Dr. Borrett:

Manuscript ID MEE-13-11-654 entitled "enaR: An R package for
Ecological Network Analysis" which you submitted to Methods in Ecology
and Evolution, has now been evaluated.  The comments from the
reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter, together with a
recommendation from the Associate Editor who oversaw the refereeing
process and also read your manuscript in detail.

In view of the comments received, I must decline your manuscript for
publication in the Methods in Ecology and Evolution at this time.
However, we would be willing to consider a new manuscript which takes
into consideration these comments.

Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee
eventual acceptance, and that your resubmission may be subject to
re-review before a decision is rendered. Please also ensure that your
revised manuscript still conforms to our word limit of 6000-7000 for
standard papers, or 3000 for applications.

Once you have revised your manuscript, go to
http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/mee-besjournals and login to your
Author Center.  Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click
on "Create a Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number.
Then, follow the steps for resubmitting your manuscript.

Because we are trying to facilitate timely publication of manuscripts
submitted to the Methods in Ecology and Evolution, your revised
manuscript should be uploaded within 12 weeks.  If it is not possible
for you to submit your revision within a reasonable amount of time, we
will consider your paper as a new submission.

I look forward to a resubmission.

Sincerely,
Prof. Robert Freckleton
Executive Editor, Methods in Ecology and Evolution
coordinator@methodsinecologyandevolution.org<mailto:coordinator@methodsinecologyandevolution.org>


Associate Editor Comments to Author:

Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
Dear Authors,

both reviewers appreciate your work on your R package. Reviewer #2 has
several minor comments and some concerns about the extensibility of
enaR. Reviewer #1 has some other major comments concerning the code
availability and the introduction. All these comments are relevant and
should be considered.

I am not a specialist of network analysis and this is perhaps my
reading of your paper is much more negative. I found that some parts
of the paper are not clear and I think that the paper fails to
describe the originality of the package and describe/illustrate the
content of the package.

The introduction focus on two schools but remains very vague and
general (i.e., only description with few scientific
considerations). There are not enough details for non specialists and
several technical terms without explanations (l29 - 51). You describe
two schools but what are the implications, consequences on your
package? On the development of tools/methods/software ? I found some
response l 81-82 but this is not enough.  For me, its seems that you
describe some historical considerations but we did not see what are
the scientific implications of this dichotomy. These two schools lead
to the development of complimentary or concurrent tools ? Moreover, as
described by reviewer #1, you did not mention an important part of
networks tools. Hence, the introduction should be completely rewritten
to highlight the position of your package in the network analysis
ecosystem. Try to be more pedagogic for MEE readers that are not
specialist of your field and describe the two schools based on
scientific implications.

I think that a software paper should better describe the content of
the software, reproducible examples should be provided. You should use
examples to demonstrate how the tools provided in the package could be
used to analyze real data. In your paper, there is only one example
with R code (not reproducible since we do not have the 'oyster.dat'
file). You fail to describe how enaR could help me to analyze
ecological data. A complete rewriting of the paper is thus required. Read some
published MEE software papers to understand what is the spirit of this
type of contribution.

%Honestly, I thought we did use examples that were reproducible
%Add clarity on what the package can tell us
%Perhaps we should make it clearer that the models in the package are real

Some other comments:
- l93: enaR was built on top of two existing R packages: network
(Butts 2008a) and sna (Butts 2008b) --> what does it mean ?

%Change the language to make it clearer. 

- describe the content of the package: how many functions / methods ?

%Ok. 

- l119: data format: for import ?? please add information on that
point (how should we load our data with enaR).

%I thought we did this, but perhaps we need to make it clearer

- l 112-115: not clear how this information should be considered in a
simple graph (e.g. import/export boundary) ?

%Explain this figure better

- Example (l. 133): could I repeat the analysis. What is the aim of
the example ? No illustration, no discussion of the outputs ! --> this
is not interesting for readers

%???

- Part 3.1 Visualization (l. 151): novelty compared to existing
package ?? not clear

%Make it clear that we are using existing software
%Note that many users might not have experience with plotting networks?

- Part 3.2 Does this library contains models or observed data ?? This
is not clear for me. Why it is interesting for users ?

%I suppose we need to make this more general. 

- Part 3.3: batch analysis : not clear for me ! how it is implemented
? Do the user should apply loops ? what is the originality/novelty for
users ?

%I thought that this is clear from the code, but perhaps it is too low level.
%Maybe I need to add a batch processing function?

- l. 213-220: how to interact with other packages. Are they some
functions to convert objects among classes/packages  ?? How other
packages could be useful (e.g. vegan, Diversiytree, etc)

%This is a good suggestion and would broaden the user base if we coulddo it

- l. 243: give the url of your Git repos

%Ok-dokey, I'll add this.

-in several parts, you mention 'professional grade'. What does it
means ?

%Let's address this by removing this language.

Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:

Reviewer: 1

Comments to the Corresponding Author
I have reviewed the paper MEE-13-11-654 by Borrett and Lau. I
previously used enaR for analyses, and was extremely happy to see the
authors formalise their work with a paper.

I have three major comments that I think require attention.

1. The introduction is too long. As much as I appreciate reading about
the history of ideas in science, I think that  software note is NOT
the place to do so. I read software notes for presentation of what a
software does, and why it does it better, or more efficiently, or with
less effort than previous solution. As a side note, there is an entire
branch of network analyses (studies of metrics like connectance,
modularity, intervality, ...) that is entirely left out, so I felt the
introduction conveyed a wrong picture of the field.

%Reduce the history to one paragraph
%Add more on what the package can do for the user

2. The availability of the software is not good. Although it is
possible to download the code from CRAN, this is not conducive to
improvements from the community. Reading the code required that I
download the tar file, untar it, and whatever modifications I could
have suggested would have been sent by email to the authors. There is
mention of a GitHub repo at the end of the paper. I think this is
indeed the way to go, and the URL of the repo, including guidelines
for contribution, should be mentionned clearly in the text.

%Add link to github
%Add text on how users can contibute?

3. I failed to see what the authors mean by
"professional-grade". There are, for example, no tests that the
functions perform as advertised. The `testthat` package allows do to
automated unit-testing in R, and should be used. Writing a package
that regroups ALL methods in one field should be held to an extremely
high standard of quality, which involves extensive testing.

%Remove the language, professional grade
%Check out the testthat package
%Provide examples from MEE where packages do not do testing of the software

Rimouski, Dec 16. 2013
Timothée Poisot

Reviewer: 2

Comments to the Corresponding Author

My recommendation is that the manuscript be accepted, with minor
revisions. The subject matter is well suited to the journal and the
manuscript helps to further the journal’s stated aims.  In terms of
form, the manuscript is adequately organised and is well written. The
introduction frames the importance of both the subject matter and the
specific software itself; the objectives are stated clearly and the
subsequent parts of the manuscript help clarify ways in which the
authors believe these objectives are met. The software that is
presented allows for the use of open-source software in ecological
analyses. Apart from the benefits stated by the authors, this helps
level playing fields in ecological research by eliminating the
financial barrier that licenses can present to some laboratories
around the world for the analysis of data.  In conclusion, the
software is a noteworthy addition to the field and the manuscript
presents it well.

The most substantial criticism I have refers to the second stated
design objectives of the software, i.e., “to increase both the
availability and extensibility of the software”.  While creating a
package for R certainly increases availability, the extensibility of
the software is questionable in the absence documentation for
programmers regarding how the code works. Precedence for this sort of
step towards extensibility can be found in R packages like foodweb
(see Documentation folder). I was not able to find any such
documentation in the enaR package folders.  It is my understanding
however that the authors intend to further this extensibility
objective with the creation of a GitHub, as stated at the end of the
manuscript.  I wonder whether it is feasible to give this at least a
preliminary start before the manuscript is published. While I would
agree that the mere availability of the code is a step towards
extensibility, I believe the extensibility claim would have a lot more
strength if programmers had some level of guidance through the code.

%Add details on how users can contribute
%Direct users to the enaR repository
%Direct users to descriptions of best practices for contributing

My suggestions for minor revisions are below:

Line 125 qualifies the package as an initial release, however the
version available on the CRAN website is 2.5. I suggest the sentence
be changed to “the current available version” or something to that
effect.

%Agreed. Our versioning does not follow typical software best practices. 
%Let's change the language to the Current Stable Version and Development
%CRAN = stable
%GitHub = development

Line 129 I suggest the authors specify which recent developments.

%Ok.

Line 156 References?

%Check on this.

Some indication is needed that the enaR package produces the same
results as do the currently available major programs.

%Perhaps we should check against ecopath? netwrk?

I did not find reference to the supplementary files in the manuscript.

%Look into this.
