July 23, 2013

Dear Prof. Freckleton,

Thank you very much for the rapid and organized review of the
manuscript [MEE-14-05-242]. We found the comments to be constructive and
helpful, which led to a significantly improved manuscript. As we detail
below, we have addressed all suggested edits per the reviewer's
instructions.

* Associate Editor *
 
Comments to the Author: 
Dear Authors, 

- Both reviewers appreciate the work done on your paper and have no
  major comments. The quality of the paper has been greatly improved and
  it clearly presents the advantage of enaR compared to existing
  packages. However, this new version contains many typos (e.g., l. 6,
  "as et"; l. 38 "Extant", etc) that should be corrected. Please
  consider comments of both reviewers and read carefully your paper to
  correct typos.

Thank you for your kind words.  As directed, we have carefully edited
the paper to remove typos and worked to address the criticism of the
reviewers (detailed next).

*Reviewer 1*

Comments to the Corresponding Author
- I think that "Network Ecology" should be "network ecology"

We agree with the reviewer here and have changed to the lower case, as
network ecology is now an established, general field of study and
not a specific study, i.e., a proper noun, and thus doesn't warrant
capitalization. 

- Please provide the comparison with other software as supplementary
  material

Good suggestion. We have added a table comparing the whole network
statistics calculated in many of the enaR functions to the output from
 other ENA analytical packages including NETWRK, NEA.m, EcoNet
for the Cone Springs ecosystem model.  As most of these whole network
statistics are calculated from the resultant matrices and vectors, the
close agreement we find suggest that the results of the enaR
algorithms are consistent with the other software.

- I have made some minor queries on the code, submitted as GitHub
  issues

This was very helpful and kind of the reviewer. We have gone through
all of the suggestions and fixed them as suggested.

*Reviewer 2*
- I question the need for the section “Example Application” in the
  manuscript. This seems better suited to a help file than to a
  manuscript.

While we appreciate the reviewer's suggestion, it conflicted with the
previous recommendations of the associate editor. Thus, we have
retained the example.  However, we updated the text to make it more
streamlined and re-labeled the associated table as a figure as requested.

- I wonder whether there is a way of expressing the idea in line 153
  without appearing to advertise for the program. I believe the
  manuscript should be a description of a program, not a sales pitch
  for it. My suggestion is to look out for this across the entire
  manuscript. I appreciate that the authors have tried to be clearer
  about the novelty of the program and its usefulness, and that this
  may be the manner in which they have chosen to do so.

We appreciated this suggestion, as our intent is to illustrate the
utility of the package for users and draw their attention to the
possible benefits. As suggested, we revised the text to reduce the
"advertisement" language.

- Table 4 is not actually a table and additionally text in it, though
  useful to package users, is not sufficiently important to warrant
  inclusion in the manuscript. I suggest eliminating it from the
  manuscript and making it accessible via the package help files, if it
  isn’t already.

Again, we did not eliminate the example and example code as this was
requested in the initial comments of the associate editor; however, we
did re-label the Table as a Figure.  

- Caption 1d. Is it actually meant to read “xx node” or is this an oversight?

This was a good catch. We have fixed it to now read "56 node."

- Table 3, are there really no example references for the other
  functions (e.g. for calculation of eigenvalue centrality of a
  matrix)? For cases in which there are no relevant references, I
  suggest for the purposes of standardizing with other tables that the
  authors place the word “none” in the respective row.

Most of these functions don't have references as they are functions
specific to the package.  However, we reviewed each entry, added
references as needed, and otherwise indicated the lack of an
appropriate reference with "none".  

- The use of the phrase “note that” seems inappropriately colloquial
  for a manuscript. See lines 101 and 118. I suggest a re-write. See
  also “notice” in line 191.

We have reduced colloquial language throughout the manuscript.

- Line 118, typo: space required between “enaR” and “to”.
- Line 119, typo: correct “software”.
- Line 197, typo: correct “enhancment”
- Line 222, typo: correct “exiting”
- Line 240, grammatical inconsistency: “cycles is”
- Line 244, typo: correct “enhancement”
- Table 3, typo in last row, second column.

We have corrected all typos pointed out by the reviewers and editors,
and carefully revised the manuscirpt to remove additional issues. 

--
Thank you for your consideration of this revsied manuscript.

Respectfully,

Stuart Borrett and Matt Lau
